George Karas: Hello,
my name is George Karas,
and I am part of Apple's
Video Partner Operations team.
Welcome to this video
to understand
the video integration
with the Apple TV app.
For TV providers
that are integrating
their own video application
with the Apple TV app,
this video will detail
the client requirements
and onboarding process
that are necessary to adhere to.
Let's start with understanding
how your video apps
will integrate.
There are three basic things
that will need to be achieved.
First, your iOS
and tvOS applications
will need to include
the universal search
extended entitlement
in your provisioning profile,
so that they can share
the authentication status
of the customer to the device.
While customers watch content
in your application,
playback data is reported
to the device as well,
so that it can be tracked
in the Up Next section
of the Apple TV app.
And your application
has to support deep-linking
to properly open content
for browsing,
play content automatically,
and resume VOD content
correctly.
Registering subscriptions
correctly is critical to ensure
your applications work correctly
with the data you are providing
in your catalog
and availability feeds,
which is controlling
the presentation of your content
in the Apple TV app
for our customers.
As customers are authenticated
to your application,
this status is shared
with the device
so that the Apple TV app
can properly understand
your entitlement data
and show content as playable
or available as part of
a subscription package.
As customers change
their subscription status,
the registration
with the Apple TV app
must also be udpated.
And the customer's subscription
status and expiration date
should also be properly adjusted
as your application is launched.
If you are using
restriction tiers
in your availability feeds
for the Apple TV app,
then tiered entitlements
must also be presented
in the subscription
registration.
These tier names must match
your availability feeds,
and it's important
that they represent
consumer-facing
packages of content
to ensure your applications
perform with a minimum payload
against the Apple TV app.
To support tracking content
in Up Next of the Apple TV app,
your applications must report
video playback information.
This is done through
the Now Playing API,
which includes
the contentId value
used in the catalog feed
for VOD movies and TV shows,
or the serviceId value used
in the linear availability feed
for the channel
that is being played.
Video on demand content
also requires
the duration of the video asset
and the elapsed time
of the customer to be shared
to understand if a customer has
completed watching a video asset
or if it has time remaining
and can be resumed later
from Up Next.
This data is updated
on activity events
as customers interact
with your video player
such as play, pause,
seek ahead or behind,
and upon any exit
of the video player.
The Apple TV app
also needs to understand
the content a customer
is browsing
for it to enable
a nice Siri feature.
This is done through
the NSUserActivity API,
which is present
while a customer is viewing
a content details page
for a movie or TV show
in your application.
Again, the contentId values
for your content from the feeds
are used here,
so that a customer can say,
"Hey Siri,
add this to my Up Next."
Great for those
save-for-later moments.
And finally,
proper deep-linking is critical
to ensure your customers
have a pleasant experience
from the Apple TV app
to your own app.
Your applications
must accept open links
for all of the content types
you are providing
in your metadata feeds.
Accepting play links properly
is a requirement
for movie, TV episode,
and sporting event items,
and are presented
and used by the Apple TV app
when the customer
is recognized as entitled
via the subscription
registration
mentioned previously.
Lastly, for your VOD movies
and TV shows,
Apple will add
a resumeTime parameter
to your play deep-links
with the time value in seconds
if the Apple TV app recognizes
the customer has time remaining
to finish watching.
The expectation is then
that your video player
will resume
at the appropriate time.
Deep-links from the Apple TV app
must also meet
the Human Interface Guidelines
to ensure the experience
is elegant for the customer.
Once your applications
include these integrations,
they're ready for testing
by Apple.
As your development tracks
have begun
across the metadata feeds
and app integration,
Apple will support you
through the onboarding process.
Part of this is sharing
the necessary data
about your services and brand,
which is done
through the partner manifest.
This is a collection
of your catalog
and availability services,
and is shared with Apple
so that they can
be set up in our systems.
The manifest is a living feed
of your services,
allowing you to manage them
in Apple's systems as well,
should the feed URLs change,
or you later work with Apple to
graduate to a new spec version.
Coming onboard
to the Apple TV app
generally works
in the following fashion.
When selected to participate
in the program,
Apple will engage with
your technical development teams
in an official kickoff meeting
and possibly set up
some workshops to follow later.
Through the partner manifest,
Apple can set up
your video service brand
and register your video
applications in our systems.
This then allows Apple
to begin receiving your feeds
once that development
and validation exercise
with the Media Feed Validator
has begun.
It's often recommended to start
on this work stream first,
as application testing
requires it,
and Apple can require
up to a two-week cycle
to validate and test
an ingestion of your feeds.
App development
can begin in parallel,
but certain points
of information are required
on the catalog
and availability feeds
being generated
for full validation
and, of course, testing.
Once the metadata feeds
are fully approved by Apple,
and applications
with the integrations
described in this video
are included
and shared with Apple
via TestFlight,
Apple TV app
test mode can begin.
At this point,
you can simply
install your application
from TestFlight,
and experience it
a part of the Apple TV app
as if it's publicly available.
Apple does the same,
and runs the application through
a formal QA testing process
before the builds are submitted
to the App Store for review.
Upon Apple QA approval,
the applications
can be submitted
to the App Store for review,
and once live on the App Store,
Apple can then
enable your video service
to be a part of
the Apple TV app.
By doing these things,
your application
and video service will shine,
and customers will
enjoy viewing your content
through the Apple TV app.
Thank you!